---
title: Collection and Measurement
---

## Collection and Measurement Techniques

Tracking merchandise is different for different kinds of stores. In some ways it is easier to track shoplifting of clothes or products from stores like Target or Walmart. Clothes typically have electronic article surveillance or EAS tags on the garment to prevent shoplifting by setting off the alarms near the entrance of the building when the item is not paid for. Radio frequency identification or RFID tags collect data when the item is sold including where it was made, the store it was shipped to, and purchase history. Recent developments have RFID tags smaller so they can be sewn into the clothes. Typically RFID is for merchandise management and EAS is for security and anti theft properties but they have an intersection where some data from both tags would prove useful.  This makes preprocessing of clothing and merchandise data simpler which is good for the speed of data acquisition for training.

In grocery stores and markets stolen items are tracked through multiple ways including security cameras monitoring for evidence and employee intervention. This way is hard to translate into data as it requires identification of items. Self checkout machines have cameras that are used to illicit shame to deter theft but it still occurs. In stores like Target cameras are used to constantly survey the aisles and observe theft. Using cameras in the aisles and near the entrance, items that are taken can be tracked. Definitely also require the location of the business which could be in counties or more specific like the zoning designation of commercial areas. 

Police data could be used if and only if the records have data on what kinds of items they stole as a point of reference for merchandise to consider. Race, age, gender and other personal information will not be acquired because who is stealing is not what we are predicting. Though shoplifting is underreported since there is not a large loss at the expense of the company. Stores and police ignore it and shoplifters are not typically caught. Plus employees are told to not try to apprehend shoplifters as their safety is more important than the merchandise. This is why the other methods of collection have more priority and police data may be used to supplement the analysis. Data collection from the police is highly flawed from a history of biased officers and justice system disproportionality punishing people of color. Oftentimes it is hard to detect until put under fine detail which is our job as responsible data scientists. This makes me averse to using their data but it felt necessary to mention. 


## Concerns with Collection and Measurement 

Social concerns regarding consent to collect video data present themselves. Consent to use store cameras may be an issue if they do not want to. Second, customers are surveilled in the store possibly without their knowledge which threatens their privacy. The question after that is, who must we present the predictions and analysis to? It is a legal matter so it could be argued that authorities should be given the analysis and predictions. Their actions with this information cannot be controlled though and it could result in unintended uses. It should be shared with the stores who willingly allow their data to be collected but their reaction to unsavory information like the store is highly susceptible to theft could anger their management. At that point the .

The collection of data using cameras is hard and slow to obtain as shoplifting occurs often but is not easily translatable or malleable which could result in low amounts of data and misleading predictions. Small amounts of data to train on results in inaccuracy and high deviation. Deployment of the model should be halted until sufficient data is available to make reliable predictions, premature deployment is common in police models. With inaccurate predictions we can put people in jeopardy and risk the reputation of their stores or neighborhoods.

Concern with locating areas where crimes occur and communicating it is that it can affect the reputation of an area whose residents may not appreciate the label. The label of a neighborhood as one that needs this kind of assistance may turn off surrounding business and dissuade future businesses from establishing themselves. Not only but individuals, it would make them feel uncomfortable to be labeled as living in a potentially unsafe place. A big factor in city planning are people who support proposed projects but do not want it in their area as it will attract attention and potentially disrupt their way of life. Since the data should be obtained based on general location we would have to assume that areas will share similar needs and this assumption could poorly reflect reality. 


## Response to Concerns

In response to the concern of customer privacy in stores, consent is given when entering a store and being let known that there are cameras in the store recording. Signs near the entrance alerting customers that they are on camera are typical and the lawful way to allow recording of individuals in stores. Even then the details of suspects are not important due to the purpose of collection being on the merchandise and location. Personal information like race, age, and facial features do not need to be recorded. This may even be a benefit, profiling from the data will not be a concern as it is in other contexts of using surveillance footage.
	
	

A response to the second concern is the reassurance to businesses that we can reduce shoplifting by having non-profit organizations disperse resources to dissuade crime. For example if there is a large amount of shoplifting at grocery stores, there are many non-profit organizations that provide food for free through food pantries and they can be advertised so the community can use that instead

It is hard to assume that areas will share similar needs but conventional wisdom would say that at grocery stores small products that are easy to hide would be shoplifted and it would be the same at other grocery stores. At a retail store like Target, clothes and things that can be slipped into a pocket will probably be shoplifted more than expensive technology and it could be reasonably assumed that this is shared among other Targets. 
