---
title: Modeling and Analysis
---

## Ethical Concerns with Modeling and Analyzing the Data

With respect to the legal norm it should be expected that people who commit crimes should face justice for their actions. This is opposed by the goal presented and usage of the models instead of punishing, the intended treatment is mercy.
 
Is this fair treatment? Does this gentle treatment of low income individuals follow the unbiased position that should be expected of data scientists. The intentions are clearly set to  When there is a situation where two stores have equal amounts of high shoplifting rates but one is in an affluent and the other is in a low income area, it cannot be fair to pick a location.​ The outspoken intention is to help people from low income communities which would unfairly place their importance over other areas. We have claimed the responsibility to decide that people who commit a crime should be treated differently because of their intentions and history. This is contradictory to the legal basis of blind justice where everyone of any status should be treated equally. Since the course of action with the predictions is to give to the community instead of sending police, will that redeem intentional unfairness? 

Can we change people's survival mechanisms or habits? There are people who don’t steal for their survival but steal for more deeply rooted issues. People’s habits are in some part built on their outlook on life. If they do not care for others or their own lives then this momentary relief is surely not enough to give them a reason to live differently. It can be seen as a bandaid on a bigger issue. This relates to another program in San Francisco, harm reduction, in which people are provided with the tools to do drugs like heroin for free with the ideology that these people will do drugs anyway at least let them be safer when doing it. Perhaps we should use different solutions to food insecurity or lack of accessibility to acquire basic needs instead of assuming small gestures will set a person's life on the right track.

## How to Resolve Concerns with Analysis

The optimistic outlook is that small steps are the first to take. Sometimes fairness and justice do not coexist as we learned in class. We can provide help by making unbiased models with proper and unafflicted data, and then in the analysis phase make informed decisions on what areas are most in need. There are many ways the information can be analyzed and contextualized to understand where the suspects are coming from. Then when put into context their situation,it can be addressed specifically. 

In the analysis phase it is the responsibility of the data scientists to make decisions and present the findings in the best way possible. That includes critically evaluating the history of areas and how it has affected the factors leading to individuals needing this relief. Proxies of more urgent assistance could be other reasons like hours worked on average, government assistance, and school time missed. In the analysis phase it is not about gentle treatment but the position taken is that survival is a human right which transcends the U.S. justice system. Mental health issues especially are known to not be treated in prison so rehabilitation centers are better at attempting to treat the underlying rooted issues of its subjects.

For these matters we can then reach out to rehabilitation centers or educational services, provide those who resort to crime with information, and try to get more accessible professionals to help. Aside from the momentary relief of the food or clothes provisions there are more opportunities in the information that can be analyzed for the benefit of the community. Imagine data shows that there are high rates of shoplifting near one middle school in the district but not at the other. In the analysis phase we can look at the data and a proxy for student engagement like the after school programs available to children at both schools. If one school has many opportunities offered and the other doesn't, this could be presented to the school district to convince them to offer more programs like the arts or sports. Or even refer them to places where they can be kept busy and stimulated.

## How to Interpret the Model

The model would be trained on the data collected from store’s surveillance footage of what items are stolen and location. For cases of clothing theft, RFID data is transferred when the alarms go off. It will be useful to see what items and at what location the shoplifting occurred without having to analyze video footage. It is possible for RFID tags to be used for items found in supermarkets but uncommon as the cost of item tagging can be greater than the value of the item. This information can be interpreted as the where and what of shoplifting.

The model would divide the city or county into tiles of space then use time and spatial coordinates to detect patterns of theft. Specifically not using neighborhoods or streets because these data points have their own underlying biases. Additional inputs are the data of what merchandise from what type of store and then predict the probable merchandise being stolen. Combining the two aspects gives a number corresponding to the likelihood of theft, where, and category of the items targeted. 

The combined output would be a map of spaces with the likelihood of theft in the next week with description of the kinds of merchandise that is predicted to be targeted. This is analyzed based on the history of the areas, their accessibility to rehabilitation resources, and strength of community support to identify which areas with high likelihood of theft need assistance most. 

The predictions would not be released to the public as it could bring unwanted attention that disrupts the privacy of communities. Transparency of the general way the model takes inputs and makes predictions will be provided to the public. Predictions with analysis will be presented to the proper channels, be it local food banks for food based needs or local churches for something like a clothes drive. Other applications include c
